A REST API (Representational State Transfer Application Programming Interface) is an architectural style for designing networked applications that utilize the capabilities of the HTTP protocol. 
It provides a standard set of rules and conventions for building web services that are scalable, stateless, and can be easily consumed by clients.

Here are some key concepts and principles associated with REST APIs:

1. Resources: A resource is an object or entity that the API exposes and operates upon. Examples of resources can be users, products, articles, or any other data entities in the application.

2. URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers): Resources are identified using URIs, which are unique addresses that represent each resource in the API. URIs typically follow a hierarchical structure.

3. HTTP Methods: REST APIs use HTTP methods (verbs) to perform actions on resources. The most common methods are:

   - GET: Retrieves a resource or a collection of resources.
   - POST: Creates a new resource.
   - PUT: Updates an existing resource or creates a new one.
   - DELETE: Deletes a resource.

4. Representations: Resources can have different representations (e.g., JSON, XML, HTML) based on the client's needs or preferences. The API can provide multiple representations of a resource.

5. Stateless: REST APIs are stateless, meaning that each request contains all the necessary information to understand and process it. The server does not maintain any client-specific data between requests.

6. Response Codes: HTTP status codes are used to indicate the success or failure of a request. Common status codes include 200 (OK), 201 (Created), 400 (Bad Request), 404 (Not Found), and 500 (Internal Server Error).

7. Hypermedia: REST APIs can include hypermedia links in responses to provide discoverability and navigate between resources. Hypermedia links enable clients to understand the API's capabilities dynamically.

Here's a simplified example of a REST API for managing a collection of books:

```
GET /books        // Get all books
GET /books/:id    // Get a specific book by ID
POST /books       // Create a new book
PUT /books/:id    // Update a specific book by ID
DELETE /books/:id // Delete a specific book by ID
```

REST APIs are widely used for building web services and are popular due to their simplicity, scalability, and compatibility with the HTTP protocol. 
They enable interoperability between different systems and allow clients to interact with server resources in a standard and predictable manner.